# First Project

## Create new directory

Create the directory for your new project \(MyWebShop\) and go inside that directory:

```text
PM> mkdir C:\Users\Valentina.Cupac\source\repos\MyWebShop
PM> cd C:\Users\Valentina.Cupac\source\repos\MyWebShop
```

## Create new solution

Create a new solution \(MyWebShop.sln\) based on the template inside that directory:

```text
PM> dotnet new ovm-microservice -n MyWebShop
```

Open the solution \(MyWebShop.sln\):

1. Set MyWebShop.Web.RestApi as the StartUp project
2. Build the solution

## Create the database

1. Open the project MyWebShop.Web.RestApi
2. Open the file appsettings.Development.json
3. Verify that the "Data Source" and "Integrated Security" settings are fine:

```text
  "ConnectionStrings": {
    "DefaultConnection": "Data Source=localhost;Initial Catalog=MyWebShop;Integrated Security=True;MultipleActiveResultSets=True;"
  },
```

{% hint style="info" %}
In most cases, you won't need to change any settings above, assuming that you've used the default SQL Server installation. Also, note that the database "MyWebShop" does not exist yet.
{% endhint %}

In the Package Manager Console, run the command to create the database:

```text
PM> dotnet ef database update --project .\src\Tools\MyWebShop.Tools.Migrator
```

Open the SQL Server Management Studio, and verify that the database "MyWebShop" has been created.

## Run the application

1. Run the application in Debug mode 
2. The application will automatically start [http://localhost:55617/index.html](http://localhost:55617/index.html) and it should show the Swagger UI
3. Click on the section: POST /api/customers
4. Click on "Try it out", click on "Execute" and verify that you get the 201 Success response
5. Then after that, you can try the other API methods
6. Stop debugging in Visual Studio
7. Open SQL Server Management Studio, database "MyWebShop" and you will see that data has been added to the Customers table

This shows that the REST API runs and that the database connection works.

{% hint style="info" %}
In the above link [http://localhost:55617/index.html](http://localhost:55617/index.html) , the port has been automatically generated by Visual Studio, so it may be different on your computer.
{% endhint %}

## Run the tests

1. Open up the Test Explorer \(Visual Studio main menu: Test &gt; Windows &gt; Test Explorer\)
2. Rebuild the solution to discover all the tests.
3. Open up appsettings.Test.json and verify the database connections are valid
4. Click on “Run All” inside the Test Explorer
5. Verify that all tests have passed

## Customize

Use this solution for your actual project needs. View the sample structure \(with customers, products and orders\), to see the overall flow, then you can add your own classes and interfaces.

