# Data Sources

## Overview

Data sources represent a fundamental part of the big data system. These components are the generators of the data that are collected to provide insights and business value to the companies.

## Types of sources

The most common sources of the data can be split into these 4 categories:

* Transactions
* Social media
* Machines
* Customers

### Transactions

This category refers to payments, orders, deliveries, storage records. In most situations, it is generated by financial, trading, and eCommerce applications. It is useful for analyzing the market situation, predicting stock prices, and optimizing costs.

### Social media

This category refers to the activity on social platforms. Examples of this activity are likes, tweets and retweets, comments, posts, video uploads, and general media that are uploaded and shared. It is useful for insights into consumer preferences, changing trends, and marketing analytics.

### Machines

This category refers to the industrial equipment, sensor measurements, generated in real-time, and the company's server logs. It is a standard data source in the **IoT** \(Internet of Things\) solutions. It is useful for analyzing the system performance, tracking the state in real-time, sending notifications, predicting system behavior, and reacting to failure scenarios.

### Customers

This category refers to users that use the company's web or mobile client applications. Data can be generated directly by a user, or indirectly by tracking user behavior. It is useful for adapting ads and recommendation engines.

## Data format

...





